And we are back. Quick lecture, hopefully. Since we talked
about what content options we have, how to make
our brand or personal account fit into some broader
scheme of Instagram, I thought it would be helpful to just
go over some accounts that exemplify some of
the standards that I've been spouting off about.
Now, some of these are impressive, because, well, good
God, how do you make an Instagram out of that?
Some are just killing it with content variety.
And others are great just for the sheer creativity.
All right.
So let's get into it.
First off, let's take a look at Buffer.
Now, we'll actually use Buffer later on in the course, but their social media strategies are pretty much always worth following.
They create an app that helps you
schedule posts for social media - cool.
It's a classic example of a software that just moves
widgets and code for some unvisual output.
So take it from them.
Anyone, really anyone can run a successful Instagram.
They post all sorts of photos and they try to almost
build like a lifestyle around their company.
Now, one thing that's interesting about them is that
every employee is remote, so they often hit on that
theme quite a bit, and they also work on building
up these hashtags, and things like that.
They also hit on productivity.
So they have nothing visual, but they just looked at the
themes that their users like, or follow, or whatever
they could kind of paste on top of what they do.
Productivity and remote living - there you go.
All right.
Next up, we have the Foundr, and we've actually
covered them before, but again, it's worth looking at.
Now, they're a magazine in Australia for entrepreneurs
and they've always been pretty big on Instagram.
They're not the best visual appeal, but they do a really
good job of mixing in different types of content
while always keeping a consistent pattern.
Now, you'll notice they mostly do
quotes with the same style,
they have a solid background with the logo at the
bottom, and then they break it up with profiles of
people they interview, and occasionally shots of their book.
It's also worth noting that they advertise an insane amount
actually, they get product plugs into
their feeds almost every single day.
They're also pretty well known for how often
they do promotions with other accounts.
We'll talk about that later.
But they do an insane amount of promotions.
It's kind of like an account on overdrive.
Next up, number three.
Let's look at Lewis Howes.
He's a personality account, and
that's pretty much all about him.
Honestly, I don't know what he does, but
he sells a lot of things with his face on it.
He does a good job of this
generally. He throws in bits about himself or quotes
from his appearances, and then some behind the
scenes on how he does what he does,
or who he's working with, or where he is.
And he sometimes even throws in some quotes, sometimes they're from him, sometimes they're from, I don't know, people
that are inspiring.
What's mentionable though is that he really
understands his audience and what they want.
They want motivation, quick one liners,
and then behind the scenes.
So he does a really good job of capturing those three.
I'm interested in this stuff,
I'm interested in him, that lends itself to behind the
scenes, and quotes, and just clips of other stuff.
Next up, we have Kettle and Fire.
Now, again, I'm a little biased, because this is a company
from one of my co-instructors, but it's worth checking
them out, because Instagram has worked really well for them
in the past, and let's be honest, they're a soup company.
How do you run a full time account selling soup?
Well, they seem to have figured out what works.
They do a lot of these lifestyle shots,
pretty food shots, and then recipes.
I think, given the parameters they're in,
they've done a pretty good job.
How do you make soup into an account?
You make it into a soup-like lifestyle.
Lots of plaid, and lots of outdoorsy stuff,
and raw carrots ready to be cut, whatever.
Next up, we have FedEx.
And yeah, I know.
OK, it's not a brand you would expect to crush it on
photo sharing, but they actually are, and it's a weird
way. Virtually everything they post is user
generated content - UGC, if you're cool.
They just ask people to post photos of their packages,
planes, and trucks, and then they just retweet it.
They call it something like "FedEx in the wild"
with a hashtag, and it actually really works.
It becomes a game that people just take photos of the
FedEx truck and that's it, and that populates their feed,
they never post anything themselves.
Number six worth checking out is Honest company
at @honest, and yeah, I don't really know how
this company has raised as much money as it has,
and all it does is sell baby diapers and trinkets,
but hey, if it works, it works.
Anyway, special points go to them for the variety
of content they use in a pretty consistent pattern,
and the effort they put into making
their color palettes pretty consistent.
Worth checking out.
There's obviously some production behind that one,
so you can't exactly copy that, but it did a pretty good
job with the basics.
Number seven is thestartup.co, which is
just notable purely for their posting cadence.
We mentioned them before, but just look at their page, like,
every third post is the same composition or the same color.
So that's, I don't know, interesting enough to take a gander,
might give you some ideas, there's nothing else I can say.
And then last but not least is Tim Ferriss, and he's
the guy that wrote The 4-Hour Workweek and The
4-Hour [something something] and his entire brand is
based on productivity and what he calls life hacking.
His account is pretty notable though, because he's built
the entire thing around his podcasts, and promoting
the people that are featured on it.
Each post has a number of the podcast on it and has
an in-depth story about the person being covered.
Stories are great content, but can
be pretty hard to pull off.
They do it well and they promote their podcast, which
is the mainstay of their business, and they do it
without sounding spammy.
It's not like, "Go to our podcast!" It's just, "Coming
up on our podcast, here's something interesting."
And it's also worth looking at how creatively they place
their ads, they have a lot of product placements in there.
So they make a lot of money doing that,
and they've done it pretty well.
All right, guys, that's more than enough to work with.
Take some time, get some inspiration, or not - I don't care.
I'll see you in the next lecture.